- [Woman] Spring Web MVC is a well known
web tier development framework,
but did you know that it can be used to create RESTful APIs?
This has been possible since its inception,
but implementation resulted in controller classes
that were messy and riddled with annotations.
That change was Spring Web MVC version 4,
with the introduction of the @RestController annotation.
Annotating a class with @RestController
tells Spring Web MVC this class follows
Restful Web Service stereotypical behavior.
A REST Controller class mediates between web requests
and the internals of the application.
It is responsible for directing requests
to the appropriate services,
and then sending the response back to the client.
In Spring Data REST, the framework itself
mediates between web requests
and the Persistent Domain model.
So what are the reasons you would choose
to expose an API via the REST controller?
One reason is that your application is not
using Spring Data REST repositories.
Another is that your API launches an algorithmic service
and it's not just used for data retrieval.
Or you need to hide the internal data model from the client,
either to limit complexity or for proprietary reasons.
And finally you require a layer of business services
between the web tier and the data access layer.
Let's walk through the major components
of a REST controller.
Here's how you annotate a class to denote it
as a REST controller.
It's not necessary, but it follows convention to
have controller as a suffix to the class name.
The @RestController annotation is required.
The @RequestMapping annotation of the class level
gives a base URL for the entire class.
For maintainability, each class should map
to only one resource.
Here the resource is example,
and the base URL is /examples.
To create new examples, annotate a method with @PostMapping.
The @RequestBody annotation on the parameter
is the result of the Spring MVC data binding
from http request body to a java object.
By default the request body is expected
to be in JSON format.
Normally http status 200 is returned
upon successful completion of the method.
This method overrides that with @ResponseStatus annotation.
So successful completion will instead return a 201,
which is CREATED.
For a method that fetches all examples,
annotate it with @GetMapping.
For a method that fetches just one example by id
use @GetMapping with a path parameter,
which is concatenated to the class request mapping.
Here it is called id.
Then have a path variable parameter
that matches the mapping name.
HttpPut and HttpPatch mappings are available
for modifying one element.
Here both PathVariable and @RequestBody are employed.
And finally HttpDelete has an @DeleteMapping.
Here we delete one element so
@PathVariable is provided to denote which element to remove.